# 5. Java JVM

JVM is the platform which programs run. 

it's built for specific operating system and architecture, sits between operating system and compiled programs .

java programs are compiled into bytecode and interpreted by JVM into specific instructions



* lifecycle of objects in JVM ?

1\) compilation into the bytecodes as .class file

2\) bringing bytecode into memory of JVM is called classloading 

3\) jvm does verification to make sure bytecode does not branch out to outside memory location

4\) JIT - just in time compiler dynamically translate the running bytecodes into native instructions so that interpreting the bytecodes is not neccessary. 



* how is memory allocated ?

new will allocate memory on heap 



* how is java Heap splited ?

splited into serveral generations, when objects survive more GCs, it will be promoted to different generation.

initially is Eden Space, Survivor Space, Tenured Generation, Perm Gen \(contains immutable objects such as class definition and String constant pool\) 



* different style of garbage collection ?

mark and sweep , object reference in running code is marked as live, each reference within object is traversed and marked as live , until all routes are traced.



* stack vs heap ?

stack is where primitive values or references to objects are stored. The lifetime of variables on the stack is governed by scope of the code.  the method call itself will be placed on stack .



* how to define size of heap in JVM ?

-Xmx and a size 



* is it possible to have memory leak in JVM 

yes, example array list call push million times then pop million times



* explicitly call JVM to perform GC 

System.gc , JVM will take your request into account, and will perform a garbage collection if it can. 



* what does finalize method do ?

inherited from Object... when JVM is about to do GC, the finalized method is called .



* what is Shutdown hooks ?

when JVM terminates, it is possible to have some code run before it exits. 

Runtime.getRuntime\(\).addShutdownHook\(new thread\(\)\)



